# Attack Detection Using Machine Learning Based Approach

This project is the FYP of Yige Zou.

1. File **main.py** is the prototype system of this project. It will
read the packet data in file **network traffic.csv**, return the
classification results in console, and write packet data
of attacks into file **Alert.txt**.
2. File **network traffic.csv** initially contains 100
pieces of packet data without labels. File **network traffic with label.csv**
contains same packet data but with labels. You can compare
the labels to the results printed in console to check the
effectiveness of the IDS. You can copy data
from raw dataset into these two **.csv** files for 
further validation of IDS. (To do that, please be reminded to remove labels
in **network traffic.csv**. You can open this file with text-editing
software, and replace ",R" and ",T" with "".)
3. File **Alert.txt** contains the packet data of attacks to simulate
the alert generated by IDS when detecting attacks. This
file doesn't exit originally and will be created when 
**main.py** is run for the first time. Everytime **main.py**
is run, the packet data of attacks detected will be added
into **Alert.txt**, and alerts won't be cleared automatically.
So if you want to initialize the IDS, please delete this file.
4. **DataPreprocess_KDD.py**, **DataPreprocess_CICIDS.py** and 
**DataPreprocess_Car.py** include the preprocessing phase of
each dataset. You can run them to fetch relative information, such
as shape and labels of datasets.
5. **TrainAndTest.py** contains the testing phase of this project.
When running this programme, you will be asked to choose
a dataset and a classifier. According to your choice,
the preprocessed dataset will be imported from corresponding
file mentioned in *Point 4*, the model chosen will be
trained, and testing results will be showed in console.
6. Folder **Dataset** contains the datasets used in **TrainAndTest.py**.
7. Folder **Figure Plot** contains the programmes to plot
figures used in final thesis.
8. Folder **Script** contains the scripts used when processing
raw datasets.
9. Folder **RAW** contains the raw files of each dataset.
10. Folder **TEMP** contains the temp files generated when
processing datasets.
11. Because of GitHub's limit to file size, **RAW**, **TEMP**
and **Dataset\CICIDS.csv** are uploaded to BOX. If needed, please
download them from *https://box.xjtlu.edu.cn/smart-link/d9933a63-0652-48dd-801c-f37a2463c6ff/*.
You should put **RAW** and **TEMP** in the root
path of this project, and put **CICIDS.csv** in folder **Dataset**.
